>> Melkey: So with that done, we're
actually gonna introduce another package
into our application, and
this is gonna be the middleware package.
So if we go into internal,
go ahead and just close these down.
Go ahead and
add another folder called middleware, and
then we'll do Middleware.Go.
It will be its own standalone package.
Go ahead and
call this package Middleware, okay?
This is gonna have a type user Middleware.
It's gonna be a struck, okay?
This struct is gonna
have a user store field,
which gonna be a type store user,
store like that, okay?
And then here,
we need to create two new functions.
And these functions are going
to be basically injecting and
extracting values from
the request.body pointer?
So HTTP request, it's a pointer.
Typically, we've seen it and
we've seen that.
We've been able to use
the R.body object from it.
This time, we're gonna be able
to basically interject incoming
requests through that pointer,
using our middleware, and
tell it is the person calling this an
anonymous user or a user who's logged in?
So to do that,
we're gonna create two new functions.
The first one is going to be set user,
okay?
These are not gonna be methods
on the user middleware.
These can just be standalone functions
that exist in the middleware package.
It's gonna take an HTTP request, right?
So that pointer,
cuz we're gonna be modifying it.
And it's also going to take a user,
which is type PointerStore.User, like so.
>> Melkey: And it's gonna
respond with HTTP request, okay?
Because we're modifying it, and
we're going to respond with that
modified HTTP request pointer, okay?
So here we'll have the context,
because what we're going to do is going
to be inserting our user into
the context property of request,
not the body, but context, right?
So every request that comes
through the point of HTTP request
has this property of context.
So here we have context.
I'm gonna create this using
the standard context library from Go.
So we need context with value.
You should see got brought
in context package.
And here we're gonna take the context
that gets brought from request.
So, r.context like so.
And here we're gonna put, not like that.
But here we're gonna add
a new value to the r.context.
I'm gonna first add a user key.
So first,
you may think the first thing you wanna do
is add like a user key like so
and then user.
And this is gonna be completely fine and
we can return r.withcontext and
pass in context, okay?
So this is fine, but what will end up
happening with that user key, you're gonna
potentially have collisions of different
users with the request param, okay?
So what you can typically do is you
can have a separate type that you
define as a context key,
which will be a type string, and
you can set your user context key
as a value user using that key.
So here I'll make a new type called
context key, which will be string.
Okay, but
it's its own individual type here and
I can do something like
const user context key.
It is going to be context key, and
then we can put in something like user.
>> Speaker 2: Do you expand
on the collisions a bit more?
I'm not fully understanding.
>> Melkey: So if we have just
the string like this, user key.
With the way the context package works,
you'll end up getting collisions
on just the string type.
So you have to make like your own
custom type, which is still a string,
and then you can embed it using
something like user or user key.
And then instead of
putting the user key here,
you can just put a user
contacts key like so.
I didn't mean to do that.
>> Speaker 3: You could have multiple keys
that are of type string that are the same
string value, and by creating a new type,
then when it indexes that key or
whatever in context because
it's a different type.
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: That's
what differentiates it.
>> Melkey: Yeah, yeah,
cuz the different native type behind it.
Okay, so
we have this set user store again.
So this set user function,
it's not used right now, but
we're gonna create a function
off our middleware.
And that function is going
to be using the set user.
And then we don't really need to have this
function right now, but what we can do is
do func getUser, and it's gonna be
kind of the opposite of setUsers.
It's gonna retrieve the value here.
So this is still gonna take an r, which
can be a pointer to HTTP request, okay?
And it's gonna return a store.user for us.
And what we're gonna do here is user,
okay, and here we'll do r.context, okay?
We'll get the value associated
with context, and here is,
we'll put in the user context
key to retrieve that value, and
we'll see it makes sure that this asserts
if the type is in fact Store.User.
So this notation of the dot and
comparing the types,
these assures us that the type
that we're retrieving from
the context is value is going
to be of type, store.user.
A pointer to store.user, okay?
And so if this is not okay,
this is similar to like mapping,
like if map exists or not,
we can use this okay notation as well.
So if it's not okay, so if it's not
the same type, we can handle this error.
We can bubble it up typically,
though we could also,
in fact, panic on this as well, right?
You can do panic,
let's say missing user in request.
Because at this point, once we hook
this up, we expect every request that's
going to be calling getUser is going
to have a pointer to store.user.
Whether that's anonymous user or
whether that's a logged in user.
So if something is not there,
we could panic.
The reason behind the panic is like this:
could it be a bad actor call, right?
Like a hacker, or something.
So we could pack on this.
That is a bit of an intense handling of
it that basically crashes into our app.
So I'll leave it up to you.
I will typically use something like panic,
honestly.
And if anything's going
to try to be interjected,
like a bad call, or
insert something through my application,
I'll panic it, or
I'll kind of close the HTTP layer.
Okay, so now that we have the user,
we can just return user like that.